<1.28.10.94.17.08.27.xu+@IUS4.IUS.CS.CMU.EDU (Yangsheng Xu).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.robotics
Who:      Tony Stentz
          The Robotics Institute
          Carnegie Mellon University
Topic:    The D* Algorithm for Real-Time Path Replanning
Dates:    4-Nov-94
Time:     3:30 PM - 5:00 PM
Place:    ADAMSON WING Auditorium in Baker Hall
Host:     Yangsheng Xu (xu+@cs.cmu.edu)
PostedBy: xu+ on 28-Oct-94 at 17:08 from IUS4.IUS.CS.CMU.EDU (Yangsheng Xu)
Abstract: 


                       RI SEMINAR

 WHEN:   Friday, Nov. 4, 1994; 3:30 pm - 5:00 pm
        Refreshments will be served starting at 3:15 pm

 WHERE:  ADAMSON WING Auditorium in Baker Hall

 SPEAKER: Tony Stentz
 	 The Robotics Institute
          Carnegie Mellon University

 TITLE:  The D* Algorithm for Real-Time Path Replanning

The task of planning trajectories for a mobile robot has received
considerable attention in the research literature.  Algorithms exist
for handling a variety of robot shapes, configurations, motion
constraints, and environments.  Most of the work assumes the robot has
a complete and accurate model of its environment before it begins to
move; less attention has been paid to the problem of unknown or
partially-known environments.  This situation occurs for an
exploratory robot or one that must move to a goal location without the
benefit of a floorplan or terrain map.  Existing approaches plan an
initial global path based on known information and then modify the
plan locally as the robot discovers obstacles with its sensors.  This
strategy works well in environments with small, sparse obstacles, but
it can lead to grossly suboptimal and incomplete results in cluttered
spaces.  An alternative approach is to replan a global path from
scratch each time a new obstacle is discovered.  This brute-force
approach is optimal, but it is grossly inefficient.  This talk
describes a new algorithm, D*, capable of planning paths in unknown,
partially-known, and changing environments in an efficient, optimal,
and complete manner.  D* models the environment as a graph, where each
node represents a robot state, and each arc represents the cost of
moving between two states.  Initially, a path is planned from the goal
to the robot's location using known information.  As the robot moves,
its sensors discover obstacles in its path.  These discoveries are
handled by modifying the arc costs.  D* propagates cost changes
minimally to compute a new optimal path.  The process repeats until
the robot reaches the goal or determines that it cannot.    

D* was implemented and compared head-to-head with the brute force
replanner to verify optimality and determine the performance
improvement.  It was integrated with an obstacle avoidance system and
tested on the Navlab II.  The robot succeeded in finding a specified
goal in a cluttered environment given no initial map information.  The
algorithm and the results will be presented. 

 Host: 		Yangsheng Xu (xu+@cs.cmu.edu)
 Appointment: 	Ava Cruse (avac@cs.cmu.edu)
