<0.1.3.95.09.55.01.plp+@HOSTESS.GRAPHICS.CS.CMU.EDU (Phyllis Pomerantz).0>
Type:     AI Seminar
Who:      Oren Etzioni / University of Washington
Topic:    Learning to Understand Information on the Internet.
Dates:    7-Mar-95
Time:     3:30 PM
Place:    5409 Wean Hall
Duration: 1 1/2 hours
Host:     Raul Valdes-Perez
PostedBy: plp+ on 1-Mar-95 at 09:55 from HOSTESS.GRAPHICS.CS.CMU.EDU (Phyllis Pomerantz)
Abstract: 

 Type:     AI Seminar
 Who:      Oren Etzioni / University of Washington
 Topic:    Learning to Understand Information on the Internet.
 Dates:    7-Mar-95
 Time:     3:30 p.m.
 Place:    5409 Wean Hall
 Duration: 1 1/2 hours
 Host:     Raul Valdes-Perez

 Title: Learning to Understand Information on the Internet.

The explosive growth in the number and diversity of information
sources on the Internet is rapidly outstripping our ability to find
what we want.  Browsers and Indexing tools are practical, but only
partial, solutions to this problem.  A number of information gathering
agents have emerged.  However, because such agents require a
programmer to hand code a model of each information source in their
repertoire, they too are victims of information explosion.  This talk
explores automatically learning models of information sources as a
possible solution.

I will describe ILA, a domain-independent program that learns the
meaning of external information by explaining it in terms of internal
categories.  In one experiment, ILA starts off with knowledge of local
faculty members, quickly learns a model of the Internet service WHOIS,
and then bootstraps to learn models of the personnel directories
available at Berkeley, Brown, Cal-Tech, Cornell, Rice, Rutgers, and
UCI.  ILA's hypothesis language is first-order conjunctions, and its
bias is compactly encoded as a determination.  I introduce a
probabilistic model of ILA that bounds its sample complexity, and show
when this bound is tighter than the famous Haussler bound.

This talk is based on joint work with Mike Perkowitz

Professor Etzioni will be at CMU March 6, 7 and 8th.  If you would like an
appointment with him on Monday, March 6, please send mail to plp@cs, or call
x8-7897 (Phyllis).

