<0.28.3.95.13.20.38.baraff@TURNOVER.GRAPHICS.CS.CMU.EDU.0>
Type:     cmu.cs.robotics
Who:      Simon Penny
          Associate Professor of Art and Robotics
          Carnegie Mellon University
Topic:    Autonomous Interactive Artwork  
Dates:    31-Mar-95
Time:     3:30 PM - 5:00 PM
Place:    ADAMSON WING Auditorium in Baker Hall
PostedBy: baraff on 28-Mar-95 at 13:20 from TURNOVER.GRAPHICS.CS.CMU.EDU
Abstract: 

                       RI SEMINAR

 WHEN:     Friday, March 31, 1995; 3:30 pm - 5:00 pm
          Refreshments will be served starting at 3:15 pm.

 WHERE:    ADAMSON WING Auditorium in Baker Hall

 SPEAKER:  Simon Penny
 	  Associate Professor of Art and Robotics
 	  Carnegie Mellon University

 TITLE:	  Autonomous Interactive Artwork  

In my first formal opportunity to introduce myself and my enterprise to
faculty and students in robotics, I will outline my interests and goals
as associate professor of art and robotics, a joint position between the
Department of Art and the Robotics Institute.  I'll discuss the
problematics and potentials of this radically interdisciplinary project:
attempting to make art with robotic technologies and techniques.  I'll
briefly discuss my teaching practice in this area,  my class Robotic Art
Studio, as a way of elucidating some of these problematics. 

The majority of the seminar will be spent in discussing my current
autonomous robotic artwork Petit Mal, both technically and
theoretically. Petit Mal, like most of my work, is a piece of
self-reflexive technology. It is made _of_ the technology which it seeks
to speak about,that is, robotics in general. 

Through the process of building robotic artworks I accrue a deeper
understanding, not just  of  robotic  technologies and techniques, but
of  the nature, function and aspirations of robotics as a discipline.
Such projects also (implicitly and explicitly) question the nature of
artistic practice.  

It must be emphasized that complex interaction between people and
(digital) machines is an historically novel phenomenon. The motivations
for producing such a technology, and its potential cultural functions,
are a relatively unexplored subject, philosophically and aesthtically.
We have no ``aesthetics of interactivity.''  Through my art/research
practice I realize models of possible modes of interaction which have
cultural content.

In my presentation I will engage the issue of interactivity and the
technological interface in terms of ``representation,'' in terms of the
(generally implicit) body of knowledge which the user brings to an
interface in order to be able to understand and use it. In particular
I'm interested in Petit Mal as an experimental realization of an
autonomous agent inhabiting real space, the way in which its ``meaning''
is formulated by the user/viewer in the process of interpreting its
behavior. 

I look forward to the  exchange of ideas that might arise in discussion
of these issues.
