<0.8.3.91.13.57.20.L.R.Adkins-Shellie@B.GP.CS.CMU.EDU.0>
Type:     cmu.cs.robotics
Who:      Dinesh K. Pai, Department of Computer Science, Cornell University
Topic:    Programming Complex Mechanical Systems with Applications 
          to Dynamic Walking
Dates:    8-Mar-91
Time:     3:30 PM
Place:    Baker Hall, Adamson Wing
Host:     Michael Erdmann, x7883
PostedBy: L.R.Adkins-Shellie on 8-Mar-91 at 13:57 from B.GP.CS.CMU.EDU
Abstract: 


 Speaker:  Dinesh K. Pai, Department of Computer Science, Cornell University
 Title:    Programming Complex Mechanical Systems with Applications 
 	  to Dynamic Walking
 Date:	  Friday, March 8, 1991
 Time:     3:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m.
 Location: Baker Hall, Adamson Wing
 Host:     Michael Erdmann, x7883

We consider the problem of developing control programs for complex
mechanical systems with multiple, simultaneous tasks.  Such systems are
difficult to program using traditional robot programming methods.  As a
concrete example, we consider the problem of controlling a human-like
machine to walk dynamically in three dimensions.  This problem has several
applications, including the design and construction of walking machines
capable of rough terrain mobility, computer graphic animation of complex
figures, and more distantly, understanding human walking.

We describe a new framework called ``Least Constraint'' for programming
such a machine.  In this framework, we do not specify the desired motion in
terms of trajectories but rather more weakly as a collection of assertions
to hold.  These assertions are expressed as time varying inequality
constraints in various domains.  We thus attempt to capture the essential
requirements of a task without imposing unnecessary structure.  The
constraints are solved at run time to produce control torques.  Constraint
satisfaction is performed using a fast iterative technique which takes
advantage of functional decomposition and automatic differentiation.

The approach has been successful in generating stable dynamic walking with
various gaits.  We have implemented an object-oriented programming
environment for this purpose in Common Lisp using CLOS, and tested the
approach using a full rigid-body mechanics simulation.  We shall describe
the results of our simulation experiments with the aid of computer
animation.

----------
Refreshments will be served from 3:15-3:30.  
Discussion and questions:  4:30-5:00.
Everyone in the CMU community is invited to attend.
----------
