<0.5.4.91.09.34.24.L.R.Adkins-Shellie@B.GP.CS.CMU.EDU.0>
Type:     cmu.cs.robotics
Who:      Professor Hirofumi Miura,
          Mechanical Engineering Department & Information  Engineering Course,
          The University of Tokyo
Topic:    Dexterity and Intelligence in Robotic Systems
Dates:    5-Apr-91
Time:     3:30 PM
Place:    Baker Hall, Adamson Wing
Host:     Michael Erdmann, x7883
PostedBy: L.R.Adkins-Shellie on 5-Apr-91 at 09:34 from B.GP.CS.CMU.EDU
Abstract: 


 Speaker:  Professor Hirofumi Miura,
           Mechanical Engineering Department & Information  Engineering Course,
           The University of Tokyo
 Title:    Dexterity and Intelligence in Robotic Systems
 Date:     April 5, 1991
 Time:     3:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m.
 Location: Baker Hall, Adamson Wing
 Host:     Michael Erdmann, x7883

There are many kinds of dexterous tasks which can be done easily by skilled
persons, but which cannot be clearly expressed by algorithms.  When
attempting to apply robots to these kinds of tasks, one finds that it is
very difficult to write control programs for robots.

I will discuss the dynamics and control of intelligent robots, for such
dexterous tasks, which have been developed in our laboratory. These robots
 include: 

 	a cup and ball game playing robot(KENDAMA robot),
 	a top-spinning robot(KOMAMAWASHI robot),
 	a stilts-type biped robot(TAKEUMA robot),
 	a quadruped robot,
 	and learning control of inverted pendulum.

Through these systems, we try to demonstrate how one can write control
programs for intelligent robots.

An example of intelligent control for dexterous robots is our top-spinning
robot system.  I am able to spin a top, yet I can not explain "how" I can
spin a top. My brother showed me how to spin a top, and I learned the ropes
(KOTSU in Japanese) of top-spinning by myself.  [My brother simply told me
"Wind a string on a top, hold one end of a string, throw a top and draw back 
a string at a good timing".]  Our robot system learns the ropes of 
top-spinning by obvserving a human performing the action through video camera 
and creates the control program to spin the top based on the observation.  
Our robot is able to spin a top successfully. 

In the talk, video demonstrations of several of our robot systems will be
presented.

----------
Refreshments will be served from 3:15-3:30.  
Discussion and questions:  4:30-5:00.
Everyone in the CMU community is invited to attend.
----------
