<0.09.4.92.11.29.39.plp+@PHYLLIS.ADM.CS.CMU.EDU (Phyllis Pomerantz).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.robotics
Topic:    Reminder: Manocha Talk today
Dates:    9-Apr-92
Time:     3:30 PM
PostedBy: plp+ on 09-Apr-92 at 11:29 from PHYLLIS.ADM.CS.CMU.EDU (Phyllis Pomerantz)
Abstract: 
x
                               FACULTY CANDIDATE

                    Non-Linear Geometry and Linear Algebra

                                DINESH MANOCHA
                     University of California at Berkeley

                            Thursday, 9 April 1992
                                    3:30 PM
                                Wean Hall 4623
   Many  problems  in  computer  graphics,  geometric  and  solid  modeling,
   robotics, vision, symbolic and  scientific  computation  are  reduced  to
   manipulating  system  of  polynomial  equations.  In  particular, sets of
   equations are used for object representation and constraints formulation.
   Typical  applications  include  curve  and  surface  intersections, robot
   motion  planning,  ray  tracing,  generating  images,  cusps  and   loops
   detection,   inverse  kinematics,  animation,  symbolic  elimination  and
   solving systems of non--linear equations. Earlier approaches to deal with
   these  problems  can  be  classified  into  symbolic and numeric methods.
   Symbolic techniques, like Groebner bases, are too slow  and  suffer  from
   numerical accuracy problems in the context of floating point computation.
   At the same  time  numerical  methods  based  on  subdivision,  iterative
   techniques  and  continuation  are  far  from  being  robust  and slow in
   practice as well.

   In this  talk  we  present  multipolynomial  resultants  and  show  their
   effectiveness  for  manipulating  system  of  polynomial  equations.  The
   resultant is represented in terms of  matrices  and  determinants.  As  a
   result,  we  use  algorithms  from  linear algebra for their application.
   These include multivariate  interpolation  and  modular  computation  for
   symbolic applications and Gauss elimination, singular value decomposition
   and eigendecomposition for  numeric  methods.  Based  on  multipolynomial
   resultants  we  present  efficient  algorithms for implicitizing rational
   parametric surfaces and eliminating a set of variables from a  system  of
   equations  to  obtain  a  symbolically  smaller system. We also apply the
   results to the problem of curve and  surface  intersections  and  present
   efficient  and  robust  representations  and algorithms for geometric and
   solid modeling systems. The technique can also  be  specialized  for  ray
   tracing  and  detecting  cusps  and loops. Finally we present a real time
   algorithm for the inverse kinematics of general six revolute  and  serial
   manipulators. Inverse kinematics of general six revolute manipulators had
   been an open problem in industrial robotics for more than  three  decades
   and  had significant impact on the design of robot manipulators.  We also
   highlight its application for interactive computer animation and physical
   based modeling.

                  Coffee and Doughnuts in WeH 4623 at 3:15 PM
