<0.15.2.93.14.44.16.maa+@ISL1.RI.CMU.EDU (Michelle Agie).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.robotics
Who:      KLAUS FISCHER
          German Research Institute for AI, Saarbruecken
Topic:    SOLVING SCHEDULING PROBLEMS WITH THE HELP OF MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS
Dates:    19-Feb-93
Time:     3:30 PM - 5:00 PM
Place:    ADAMSON WING Auditorium in Baker Hall
Host:     For appointments with the speaker, please contact
          Siegfried Bocionek (bocionek+@a.gp.cs.cmu.edu, x5299)
PostedBy: maa+ on 15-Feb-93 at 14:44 from ISL1.RI.CMU.EDU (Michelle Agie)
Abstract: 

                       RI SEMINAR

 WHEN:   Friday, Feb. 19, 1993; 3:30 pm - 5:00 pm
        Refreshments will be served by 3:15 pm

 WHERE:  ADAMSON WING Auditorium in Baker Hall

 SPEAKER: KLAUS FISCHER
          German Research Institute for AI, Saarbruecken

 TITLE: SOLVING SCHEDULING PROBLEMS WITH THE HELP OF MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS

The talk presents work which was done in Research Project 331
Information Processing in Autonomous Mobile Robot Systems at
the Technische Universitaet in Munich and in Research Project
AKA-MOD on Modeling Cooperative Agents at the Deutsches Forschungszentrum

In the talk the multi-agent system MAGSY is presented firstly.
The kernel of an agent in MAGSY is a forward-chaining rule
interpreter. Therefore, each agent has the problem solving
capacity of an expert system. Each agent in MAGSY is a self-contained
entity with a unique identification. If an agent knows the identification
of another agent, it is able to send this agent messages. In doing so
the agents perform services and call on services of other agents.
Agents are able to create new agents dynamically. If an agent
creates a new agent, it automatically knows the identification of
this new agent. The knowledge of the agents is structured in an
object-oriented knowledge representation scheme. There is a global
knowledge base which contains the knowledge that may be accessed
by all of the agents. Agents may store their identification in this
global knowledge base and thus become known to all agents in the system.

In the second part of the talk two applications which have been
implemented using the MAGSY system are presented. The first
example here is the design of a planning and controlling hierarchy
for a flexible manufacturing system with the help of MAGSY. The second
example is the design of a multi-agent system for modeling the transportation
domain. Here a set of shipping companies each of which controls a set
of trucks has to execute client orders cooperatively.
In both examples a scheduling problem has to be solved. In the first case
a set of manufacturing orders has to be distributed to a set of
machine tools and in the second case a set of transportation orders
has to be distributed to a set of trucks. The talk will explain
the design of the multi-agent solutions for these two applications
and how the scheduling problem was solved in each case.

 Host: For appointments with the speaker, please contact
       Siegfried Bocionek (bocionek+@a.gp.cs.cmu.edu, x5299)

