<0.22.3.93.11.51.27.feline+@ISL1.RI.CMU.EDU (Carol S Boshears).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.robotics
Topic:    Seminar
Dates:    30-Mar-93
Time:     12:00 - 1:00
PostedBy: feline+ on 22-Mar-93 at 11:51 from ISL1.RI.CMU.EDU (Carol S Boshears)
Abstract: 

CIMDS Seminar - Steve Chien, JPL, 3/30. 12:00-1:00, Doherty Hall ??
	Learning Control Knowledge for Scheduling

			Steve Chien
		Jet Propulsion Laboratory
	     California Institute of Technology

While the general class of most scheduling problems is NP-hard in
worst-case complexity (i.e., a general solution is doomed to poor 
performance), in practice, for specific distributions of problems
and constraints, domain-specific solutions have been shown to perform
in much better than exponential time.  However, discovering these
search strategies is a knowledge-intensive time-consuming process
which requires a deep understanding of the domain.

The goal of this work is to develop techniques to allow for automated
learning of effective domain-specific schedulers from a general
scheduler with a flexible control strategy.  In this approach,
techniques from machine learning and statistics are used to
automaticaly find control settings to for the scheduler which allow it
to improve performance on the domain-specific problems of interest.

These techniques have been applied to learning control settings for a 
scheduler to schedule operations for the 26-meter subnet of the Deep 
Space Network (DSN), operated by JPL and used to communicate with orbiting
spacecraft and satellites.  For DSN projected schedules, the machine learning
techniques were able to decrease the amount of CPU time required to
produce a schedule by 50% for problems solvable by the scheduler.
In addition, the machine learning allowed the scheduler to solve 15% more 
of the problems within computational resource limitations.

(This is joint work with Jonathan Gratch and Gerald DeJong of the
University of Illinois)

Steve is interested in meeting with anyone working on projects in planning,
scheduling and learning. If you are interested in meeting with Steve, please
set up a time with Carol (boshears@isl1.ri.cmu.edu).
