<0.15.2.93.09.40.01.garth+@NIAGARA.NECTAR.CS.CMU.EDU (Garth Gibson).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    WWC video seminar: Feb 17 7:15-8:15 pm 4623 WeH Christos H. Papadimitriou
Dates:    17-Feb-93
Time:     7:15 - 8:15 PM
PostedBy: garth+ on 15-Feb-93 at 09:40 from NIAGARA.NECTAR.CS.CMU.EDU (Garth Gibson)
Abstract: 

	         West Coast Computer Science Colloquium

		   SHORTEST PATHS WITHOUT A MAP:
	   On-line Algorithms and the Value of Information

		    Christos H. Papadimitriou
	  Department of Computer Science and Engineering
	      University of California, San Diego

                        7:15 - 8:15 pm
                        4623 Wean Hall
                  (via Picturetel from UCSD)
                moderated locally by Garth Gibson

 ABSTRACT:  We often make decisions on the basis of very restricted
 information.  How are we then to measure the quality of such decisions?
 The economist Leonard Savage proposed in the 1950's that the outcome of
 such on-line decisions be compared with the optimum outcome, achievable
 if complete information had been available. Recent research by computer
 scientists in on-line algorithms has shown the wide applicability of this
 idea.  

I am going to review on-line algorithms for terrain navigation and
exploration, compiling for parallel machines, and distributed optimization.
I shall also discuss how on-line algorithms can help determine the value of
information and improve the organization of the decision-making process.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

This talk is the next in a series of live, interactive video conferences
that will be held every Wednesday 7 pm - 8:30 pm between January 20 and
May 5 1993.  These conferences are being organized by a few west coast
schools, hence the name, the West Coast Colloquium.  This will be something
of a multiple university distinguished speakers series.  The participants,
so far, are Berkeley, Stanford, Washington, UCLA, UC San Diego, UC Santa
Barbara, and us.

The technology is Picturetel based with conference bridging by AT&T.  There
will be multiple monitors at each site;  cameras at every site are voice
activated to force the display to show that site, so that the distributed
audience can have camera time to ask questions.

Wednesday's seminars are still experiemental.  Many sites have yet to
get all the equipment working for such an ambitious conference call.
Even if everything is working well, there will be a noticeable lag
between your speech and its broadcast to your and others' monitors.

