<0.5.3.93.09.59.09.stankus+@STANKUS.ADM.CS.CMU.EDU (Terri Stankus).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    March 17 Distinguished Lecture
Dates:    17-Mar-93
Time:     3:30 PM
PostedBy: stankus+ on 5-Mar-93 at 09:59 from STANKUS.ADM.CS.CMU.EDU (Terri Stankus)
Abstract: 

                            PROFESSOR RUZENA BAJCSY
                Department of Computer and Information Science
                               GRASP Laboratory
                          University of Pennsylvania

                           Wednesday, March 17, 1993
                                    3:30 PM
                                Wean Hall 7500
                   Cooperative Agents:  Machines and Humans*

Recently  we  have  embarked on an investigation of Cooperative Agents.  Agents
can be mobile manipulators, observer-agents and human-agents.  The goal of this
research  is  to understand what architecture and representations are necessary
for a small team of agents engaged in a cooperative task.    The  task  can  be
material  handling  or  repair  in  generally  unstructured  environments.  The
architecture that we are striving for is advice taking and advice giving rather
than   utilizing  any  centralized  controller.    The  binding  force  is  the
cooperative will of each agent aiming to succeed  in  the  common  goal.    The
human-agent  serves  as a crisis manager who has capabilities to give advice to
any inquiring agent, since the human-agent keeps  an  updated  version  of  the
environment that the team operates in.

In  this  talk, several intermediate results and lessons learned so far will be
presented.  Examples from multisensory fusion, recognition of  shadows  through
color  and geometry will show the sensory capabilities necessary for navigation
and manipulation.  An example of two coordinated mobile  manipulators  carrying
an  object  will demonstrate mobile and manipulatory capabilities.  Finally, we
shall outline a theoretical  model  which  helps  predict  complex  cooperative
behaviors.

*In collaboration with R. Paul, M. Mintz, V. Kumar and X. Yun.
