<0.8.3.93.16.15.15.trg+@N3.SP.CS.CMU.EDU (Thomas Gross).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    PSC/CS Seminar 3/12 4:00 WeH 5202 S. Frank of KSR Inc.
Dates:    12-Mar-93
Time:     4:00
PostedBy: trg+ on 8-Mar-93 at 16:15 from N3.SP.CS.CMU.EDU (Thomas Gross)
Abstract: 


   KSR1: High Performance and Ease of Programming,
          No Longer an Oxymoron

		 Steve Frank
          Kendall Square Research

   Friday, March 12, 1993, 4:00 p.m., WeH 5205
				      ^^^^^^^^
					Note different room this time only

Historically, shared memory has been the main line programming model from
an applications and computer science perspective for two reasons: shared
memory is a flexible and high performance means of communicating between
processors, tasks or threads and; shared memory provides high programming
efficiency through use of conventional memory management methods.

The KSRl bridges the gap between the historical shared memory model and
MPPs by delivering the shared memory programming model and all of its
benefits, in a scalable, highly parallel architecture.  The KSRl runs
a broad range of mainstream applications, ranging from numerically
intensive computation, to on-line transaction processing (OLTP) and
database management and inquiry.  The KSRl's shared memory programming
model is made possible by a new architectural technique called ALLCACHE.

This talk will start by describing ALLCACHE, a logical extension of virtual
memory and cache memory.  The shared memory programming model delivered by
ALLCACHE facilitates porting and high performance for customer and third
party applications.  Within this context, the KSRl architecture and
applications environment consisting of a conventional UNIX based OS
(symmetrically executing across all processors) and programming environment
(including conventional languages) will be described.  The talk will conclude
with a discussion of experiences porting customer specific and third party
applications.

----
If you are interested in talking to Steve Frank, please send mail to bag@cs.
