<0.7.9.93.17.52.25.garth+@NIAGARA.NECTAR.CS.CMU.EDU (Garth Gibson).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    Short talk on Data Breakpoints
Dates:    8-Sep-93
Time:     11:50
PostedBy: garth+ on 7-Sep-93 at 17:52 from NIAGARA.NECTAR.CS.CMU.EDU (Garth Gibson)
Abstract: 

At the end of tomorrow morning's SW engineering IC session
we will have one additional speaker, Steve Lucco, who is a
recent faculty hire due to arrive full time next spring.
Steve will be presenting a brief sketch of the following
interesting work that was not covered in his interview talk
last spring.

He speaks promptly at 11:50 until 12:00 in Wean 5409.
---------------

Practical Data breakpoints: Design and Implementation

A data breakpoint associates debugging actions with
programmer-specified conditions on the memory state of an executing
program.  Data breakpoints provide a means for discovering program
bugs that are tedious or impossible to isolate using control
breakpoints alone.  In practice, programmers rarely use data
breakpoints, because they are either unimplemented or prohibitively
slow in available debugging software.  In this talk, I'll present the
design and implementation of a practical data breakpoint facility.

A data breakpoint facility must monitor all memory updates performed
by the program being debugged.  We implemented and evaluated two
complementary techniques for reducing the overhead of monitoring
memory updates.  First, we checked write instructions by inserting
checking code directly into the program being debugged.  The checks
use a segmented bitmap data structure that minimizes address lookup
complexity.  Second, we developed data flow algorithms that eliminate
checks on some classes of write instructions.

We evaluated these techniques on a Sparc-2 using the SPEC
benchmarks.  Checking each write instruction using a segmented bitmap
achieved an average overhead of 42%.  This overhead is 
independent of the number of breakpoints in use.  Data flow analysis
eliminated an average of 79% of the dynamic write checks.  For
scientific programs such the NAS kernels, analysis reduced write
checks by a factor of ten or more.  On the Sparc-2 these optimizations
reduced the average overhead to 27%.
