<0.17.9.93.12.11.20.alf+@N3.SP.CS.CMU.EDU (Allan Fisher).8>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    reminder: grad student teaching seminars
Dates:    5-Oct-93
Time:     2:00 - 5:00 PM
PostedBy: alf+ on 17-Sep-93 at 12:11 from N3.SP.CS.CMU.EDU (Allan Fisher)
Abstract: 
Here's the schedule of upcoming Teaching Center seminars for grad students.

 From: Rea Freeland 

Below is the complete text of the program description for the UTC seminars
for graduate students.  The complete schedule and registration information
are included.  

All graduate students, department heads and deans should have received a
copy of the program description in August.  If you would like to be on the
list for future mailings, please let us know at x8-2896.

------------------

University Teaching Center
Seminars Series for Graduate Students
"Managing Current Courses, Anticipating Future Roles"

ABOUT THE SERIES

"Managing Current Courses, Anticipating Future Roles" is a weekly series of
interactive seminars designed for graduate students.  On a pilot basis for
1993-94, the Teaching Center will offer several  in-depth, three-week
modules and several one-session special topics on different aspects of
college teaching and learning.  

The modules provide an opportunity for sustained discussion of selected
topics because we ask you to make a commitment to attend 3 or 4 related
sessions.  This format allows you to try some different strategies and then
discuss how they worked with other participants.  Also, for some modules we
may ask you to bring some sample materials from your discipline so that the
applications can be most useful to you.  The special topic format allows you
to sample a combination of topics based on your interest in different types
of students, course formats, or teaching styles.  

To facilitate discussion each session will have no more than 20
participants.  Some of the sessions may break into smaller groups to
accommodate the interests of people in different disciplines.  Experienced
TAs, faculty, and administrators will be present to facilitate discussion at
several sessions.  

You should pre-register for sessions of interest to you by using the form
included in this program description, or by contacting Michelle
Gregg-Rassau, at x2896 or mg2e@andrew.cmu.edu.  Please note that the
locations for Spring 1994 seminars will be announced at a later date.  If
you have questions about these seminars,  please contact Rea Freeland,
Associate Director, at x7981 or rf51@andrew.cmu.edu.   

MODULES

FALL 1993

Developing Your Classroom Presence
October 5, Tuesday  2:00 - 5:00 PM, Media Classroom, Hunt Library 
 NOTE:  For this session only, the number of participants is limited to 15 so
 that participants will have the opportunity to be videotaped.  
