<0.5.10.93.07.55.59.stankus+@STANKUS.ADM.CS.CMU.EDU (Terri Stankus).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    SCS Distinguished Lecture Oct. 7
Dates:    7-Oct-93
Time:     4:00 PM
PostedBy: stankus+ on 5-Oct-93 at 07:55 from STANKUS.ADM.CS.CMU.EDU (Terri Stankus)
Abstract: 

                                DR. MARK WEISER

                                     XEROX
                           Palo Alto Research Center

                           Thursday, October 7, 1993
                                    4:00 PM
                                Wean Hall 7500
			      UBIQUITOUS COMPUTING

Inspired  by  the social scientists, philosophers, and anthropologists at PARC,
we have been trying to take a radical look at what computing ought to be  like.
Two  key  points  are:  people  live in an environmental surround, using space,
muscle memory, 3-d body surround; and that people live through their  practices
and  tacit  knowledge  so  that  the  most  powerful  things are those that are
effectively invisible in use.  How  can  we  make  everyday  computing  conform
better  to these principles of human effectiveness, while avoiding the traps of
virtual reality ?  Our approach:

Activate the world.  Provide hundreds of wireless computing devices per  person
per  office, of all scales (from 1" displays to wall sized). We are doing O.S.,
wireless  LAN,  U.I.,  packaging,  display,  pen,  handwriting,  protocol,  and
interoperability  research  to  help bring this about.  We call it: "ubiquitous
computing".

We are completely off the workstation, PC, and PDA track.  These things in  the
office,  every place you are, are not personal.  You just grab anything that is
nearby, and use it.  Your information and state follows you,  the  hundreds  of
devices in your office or meeting room adjust to support you.

We  are not all that far along, this is a ten to twenty year quest.  We do have
some prototype devices working.  In this talk  I'll  describe  the  origins  of
ubiquitous  computing,  the  research  approach, and some specific scenarios of
future computing that we  consider  important.    I'll  distinguish  ubiquitous
computing  from  notebook, palmtop, multimedia, personal digital assistant, GUI
and virtual reality computing.  And I'll describe some of the current state  of
our hardware and software.
