<0.19.10.93.11.57.59.trg+@N3.SP.CS.CMU.EDU (Thomas Gross).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    CS/PSC Seminar 10/22 @ 4:00 p.m WeH 5409 A. Nowatzyk of Sun
Dates:    22-Oct-93
Time:     4:00 PM
PostedBy: trg+ on 19-Oct-93 at 11:57 from N3.SP.CS.CMU.EDU (Thomas Gross)
Abstract: 

	Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center (PSC)/Computer Systems Seminar

                The S3.mp Scalable Shared Memory Multiprocessor:
		      The Network is the Computer, really!

			     Andreas  Nowatzyk 
                  Sun Microsystems Computer Corporation (SMCC)

   	   Friday,  Oct 22, Wean Hall 5409, 4:00 p.m.

The S3.mp scalable multiprocessor system is an experimental research project
that is being implemented by SMCC's Technology Development group (TD) to
demonstrate a low overhead, high throughput communication system that is based
on cache coherent distributed shared memory (DSM).  Conceptually, S3.mp is a
virtual bus-extender that preserves the semantics of accessing memory across
all nodes.  Unlike multiprocessor busses that use broadcasting to maintain
memory coherency, S3.mp uses directories and point-to-point messages that are
send over a packet switched interconnect fabric to achieve scalability over a
wide range of system configurations.

Communication technology advances, such as high speed fiber optics, are the
driving force behind the S3.mp development.  While it is technically easier to
utilize the increased bandwidth with conventional memory-to-memory copy
engines, the resulting message passing hardware requires substantial software
overhead to process protocol stacks, manage buffers, encode and decode
messages, etc.  In S3.mp, communication happens as a side-effect of accessing
 memory:  a single store or load instruction is sufficient to send or receive
 data.  The set of transactions that are required to support the DSM paradigm
 is small and well defined so that the S3.mp protocols were amenable to formal
 verification methods and are implemented directly in hardware.

S3.mp systems are similar to ALEWILE, DASH, PLUS and other nonuniform memory
access (NUMA) multiprocessors.  However unlike these conventional NUMA MPs,
which strive to deliver the most MFlops to one scientific application, S3.mp
is optimized for a large collection of independent applications that share
common computing resources which may be spatially distributed.  Consequently,
S3.mp nodes may be separated by up to 200m, which means that a S3.mp system
could be distributed over an entire building.  Essentially, S3.mp systems are
build by adding a specialized interconnect controller to the memory subsystem
of a normal workstation.

The talk will describe the S3.mp architecture and the technologies used to
implement it.

Joint work with M. Parkin, E. Kelly, M. Browne, G. Aybay, and H. Lee of
Sun Microsystems Computer Corporation (SMCC) and D. Lee of Xerox Palo
Alto Research Center (PARC).

