<0.10.11.93.10.15.53.rebec+@GNOME.CS.CMU.EDU (Rebecca Clark).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Who:      Prof. Klaus Sutner
          Computer Science Department
          Stevens Institute of Technology
          Hoboken, NJ 07030
Topic:    "Teaching Automata Theory by Computer"
Dates:    12-Nov-93
Time:     12:00 PM
Place:    WeH 4623
Host:     Dana Scott (Asst: Rebecca Clark x8-6737)
PostedBy: rebec+ on 10-Nov-93 at 10:15 from GNOME.CS.CMU.EDU (Rebecca Clark)
Abstract: 

 What:   Special Seminar
 Who:    Prof. Klaus Sutner
         Computer Science Department
         Stevens Institute of Technology
         Hoboken, NJ 07030
         E-Mail: sutner@aiki.stevens-tech.edu
 Topic:  "Teaching Automata Theory by Computer"
 Date:   12-Nov-93
 Time:   12:00 pm
 Place:  WeH 4623
 Host:   Dana Scott (Asst: Rebecca Clark x8-6737)

 ABSTRACT: We will demonstrate the sytem "automata" that implements
 finite state machines.  The system consists of a Mathematica package
 together with a special purpose calculator that communicate via
 MathLink.  Most of the standard operations on finite state machines
 are implemented, including the computation of syntactic semigroups and
 their decomposition into D-classes.  Documentation for the system is
 available in the form of Mathematica notebooks as well as in printed
 form.  The "automata" package has been used as a teaching tool in a
 standard graduate course on automata theory.  The finite state machine
 calculator can also operate independently of Mathematica, and is
 helpful in the study of linear cellular automata.

Recent versions of Mathematica are equipped with MathLink, a high-
level communications protocol that allows one to connect external
programs to a Mathematica kernel.  Probably the most useful aspect of
MathLink is the fact that it enables one to use Mathematica as a
frontend to a special purpose program.  Mathematica can then be
employed to display, manipulate and document the data generated by the
external program.

After the lecture, Prof. Sutner will be glad to demonstrate and
discuss the use of MathLink and his "automata" package. 
