<0.21.1.94.18.58.29.dandb+@andrew.cmu.edu.0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    HCI Seminar 1/26
Dates:    26-Jan-94
Time:     3:30 - 5:00
PostedBy: Dean Rubine on 21-Jan-94 at 18:58 from andrew.cmu.edu
Abstract: 

Wednesday, January 26
3:30-5
WeH 5409
          The Role of Visual Fidelity in Instructional Simulations

                               Michael Christel
                               mac@sei.cmu.edu

The Software Engineering Institute made use of digital video in developing an
interactive course teaching code inspections, a formalized group process for
finding defects in software code.  This course, titled "A Cure for the Common
Code", is interactive in that the student not only learns about but also
participates in code inspections.

Digital video systems offer a wide spectrum of interface capabilities,
allowing the fidelity of "A Cure for the Common Code" to vary from that of a
home arcade game with simple graphics and slide show presentations to a
visually rich display complete with full motion video.  Photographic
images of an office setting and professional video of actors playing the
roles of fellow workers can make the learning environment both engaging
and realistic to the student.  However, is there any instructional
benefit to increasing the visual fidelity of the environment?  "A Cure
for the Common Code" was used in a formal experiment to address this
question, and more specifically to address the following:

  - what role does the frame rate of visual material play in the students'
    perception of and ability to recall presented information?

  - does the use of surrogate travel, rather than a single image, 
    point-and-click navigation interface, have any effect on student 
    recall and perception of presented material?

This talk will briefly overview the code inspection course, and then discuss
the results of the formal experiment concerning visual fidelity in interfaces.

This work is among the first to explore the unique interface opportunities
which digital video offers, and a set of guidelines will be proposed based
upon this research.

                          Michael Christel

                         Member of the Technical Staff
                         Software Engineering Institute
                           Carnegie Mellon University
                             Pittsburgh, PA  15213
                                 412-268-7799
                                FAX: 412-268-5758
                                 mac@sei.cmu.edu

Michael Christel has been a member of the technical staff at the Software
Engineering Institute for the past six years.  From 1987 to 1990 he worked on
the Advanced Learning Technologies (ALT) Project at the SEI, creating a
digital video code inspection course.  He has since worked on projects
exploring the use of multimedia for requirements elicitation, and improving
the utility of large multimedia databases for both software engineering tools
and training.  Christel has authored numerous papers on the ALT Project,
multimedia, and software engineering, including articles on the use of digital

video and rule bases for training simulations, and the implementation of
virtual reality systems on personal computers.  He has given a number of
invited talks on digital video, multimedia for software engineering
instruction, and multimedia interface issues.  Christel received his Ph.D.
from the Georgia Institute of Technology in the area of human computer
interaction, focusing on practical implications for the development of
multimedia interfaces for educational applications.

----------------
