<0.23.1.94.20.30.13.xu+@IUS4.IUS.CS.CMU.EDU (Yangsheng Xu).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Who:      Alonzo Kelly
          The Robotics Institute
          Carnegie Mellon University
Topic:    Systems Design of An Off Road Autonomous Navigator
Dates:    28-Jan-94
Time:     3:30 PM - 5:00 PM
Place:    ADAMSON WING Auditorium in Baker Hall
Host:     Yangsheng Xu (xu@cs.cmu.edu)
PostedBy: xu+ on 23-Jan-94 at 20:30 from IUS4.IUS.CS.CMU.EDU (Yangsheng Xu)
Abstract: 


                       RI SEMINAR

 WHEN:   Friday, Jan 28, 1994; 3:30 pm - 5:00 pm
        Refreshments will be served starting at 3:15 pm

 WHERE:  ADAMSON WING Auditorium in Baker Hall

 SPEAKER: Alonzo Kelly
          The Robotics Institute
          Carnegie Mellon University

 TITLE:   Systems Design of An Off Road Autonomous Navigator

This talk will overview the results to date for my PhD thesis in the area
of autonomous cross country navigation. The work investigates aspects of 
perception, planning, localization and control using the tools of complexity 
and dimensional analysis, experimentation, and simulation. Ideas that emerge
are implemented on the HMMWV at CMU on a proof of principle basis. 
The prototype has achieved unprecedented speeds of 15 km/hr and excursions of 
15 km on a local off-road test site.

 Perception:

 Complexity analysis leads to the conclusion that while the raw throughput
 requirement for the maintenance of safety is manageable, the traditional 
 non-adaptive range image processing approach wastes tremendous computational
 bandwidth. A simple active perception algorithm is introduced which 
 computationally stabilizes the sensor vertical field of view. It makes 20 mph 
 off road autonomy feasible and points to techniques that may permit real time 
 stereo perception on serial hardware.

 Planning:

 Investigation of the impact of latencies and limits on actuator response leads
 to a reformulation of planning in configuration space as feedforward 
 satisficingcontrol in actuation space. The traditional hierarchical 
 planner-controller architecture collapses into a multi-input, 
 multi-output feedforward controller which employs both somatic and 
 environmental feedback and which closes this loop at relatively high 
 update bandwidth. Steering feedforward, in particular, has been shown 
 to be crucial to reliable navigation above 5 mph on rough terrain.

The talk will overview the subsystems of typical cross country navigators 
and point to the impact of high speed robust navigation on subsystem 
requirements.

 Host: 		Yangsheng Xu (xu@cs.cmu.edu)
 Appointment: 	Lalit Katragadda (lalit@cs.cmu.edu)
