<0.10.5.94.12.48.42.copetas+@GANDALF.CS.CMU.EDU (Catherine Copetas).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Who:      Joel S. Birnbaum, Ph.D
          Senior Vice President of Research and Development
          Director, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories
Topic:    A FREE OBJECT TECHNOLOGY TELECAST/SEMINAR
Dates:    11-May-94
Time:     11:00 - 5:00
PostedBy: copetas+ on 10-May-94 at 12:48 from GANDALF.CS.CMU.EDU (Catherine Copetas)
Abstract: 

   HEWLETT-PACKARD PRESENTS:
   "A FREE OBJECT TECHNOLOGY TELECAST/SEMINAR"

   Cyert Hall Room 100 - WEDNESDAY, MAY 11, 1994
                         11:00-5:00 EST
          "BUILDING THE ENTERPRISE THROUGH OBJECT TECHNOLOGY"

* Increase Competitiveness
* Increase Maintainability
* Enjoy Flexibility in Application Functionality
* Learn about Advances in Technology
* Gain Productivity through Reuse
* Reduce Costs

To gain the competitive advantage in today's rapidly
changing business environment, you need to respond
quickly to the market opportunities.  Through object
technology you can provide the flexibility needed for
this market.  Objects enable firms to deliver proprietary
software solutions rapidly as well as integrate the
entire operation with a client/server architecture.
Hewlett-Packard can offer you a clear path to
object-based computing through products, programs,
consulting, and solutions that are available today.

LEARN FIRST HAND.
Hewlett-Packard will broadcast through NTU (National Technology
University) a special event focusing on object-oriented technology.
This telebroadcast will feature key speakers from HP Laboratories as
well as commercial examples of how an object technology is used in
the telecommunications and financial industries.

Here are highlights of what you'll be hearing from some of the
 speakers:

 Joel S. Birnbaum, Ph.D
 Senior Vice President of Research and Development
 Director, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories

Dr. Birnbaum's talk will set the stage for the rest of the NTU
broadcast.  He will discuss how the first beneficiaries of
object technology will be software developers;  objects help
manage complexity, encourage reuse, and lead to better, more
maintainable code. The promise of object technology is that
software designed to match the way people think will be easier
to use and more useful.

Jeff Eastman, Ph.D.
Consulting Engineer, Hewlett-Packard
Software Engineering Systems Division

Dr. Eastman is the chief architect of HP's Distributed
Smalltalk.  His presentation will discuss how distributed
systems are inherently object-oriented;  thus, it is natural to
use object technology in their design and implementation.  The
Object Management Group's Common Object Request Broker
Architecture (CORBA) is a set of emerging industry standards for
the construction of object-oriented distributed systems and
applications.  This talk will assess the state-of-the-art in the
CORBA arena and provide an architectural framework for
discussing distributed computing systems.

Mary E.S. Loomis, Ph.D.
Director, Software Technology Lab
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories

Dr. Loomis has over 20 years' experience in software engineering
and data management.  Her presentation will focus on object
database management systems (ODBMS).  Topics include: sources of
object persistence, architectures of ODBMS products, extended
relational and language bound, object model support, distributed
functionality, and standards and technical directions.

Derek Coleman
Manager, Software Reuse Department
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories

Mr. Coleman is a co-author of "Object-oriented Development:  the
Fusion Method," published by Prentice-Hall.  Fusion is an
object-oriented method that was developed to meet the needs of
HP's large and diverse software engineering community.  The
presentation will explain the Fusion method and its underlying
rationale.  The talk will also present HP's experiences
introducing Fusion into actual use on live projects.  His
presentation will conclude with a status report on CASE tools
and current research.

Real world examples:

In addition to these specialized presentations, the telecast
will feature industrial colleagues presenting how their use of
object technology and object-oriented development tools greatly
enhanced their application development process.
