<0.20.9.94.15.29.08.prs+@N2.SP.CS.CMU.EDU (peter steenkiste).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    9/23 CS/PSC Seminar
Dates:    23-Sep-94
Time:     4:00 PM
Place:    Wean Hall 5409
          CMU
PostedBy: prs+ on 20-Sep-94 at 15:29 from N2.SP.CS.CMU.EDU (peter steenkiste)
Abstract: 


 		  Tempest: User-Level Shared Memory

			     David Wood
		     Computer Sciences Department
		       University of Wisconsin
		       1210 West Dayton Street
			  Madison, WI 53706

Future parallel computers must execute efficiently both hand-coded
applications and also programs written in high-level programming
languages.  Today's machines limit programs to a single communication
paradigm---message-passing or shared-memory---which results in uneven
performance.  To address this problem, we have developed the Tempest
interface, which supports shared-memory, message-passing, and hybrid
applications.  Tempest enhances portability of parallel programs by
allowing low-cost networks of workstations to provide the same
abstractions (e.g., shared memory) as high-performance parallel
machines.

The Tempest interface consists of low-level communication and
memory-system mechanisms.  Policies, such as shared memory, are
implemented in user-level software, which allows programmers and
compilers to customize policies to an application's semantics and
sharing patterns.  Experiments show that custom cache coherency
policies can produce upto an order-of-magnitude performance
improvement.

We have completed two implementations of the Tempest interface.
Typhoon illustrates the performance of first-class hardware support
for Tempest.  This proposed hardware system implements Tempest using a
fully-programmable, user-level processor in the network interface.
Blizzard demonstrates Tempest's portability by implementing the
interface in software running on stock hardware (a Thinking Machines
CM-5).  We are currently developing a third Tempest implementation by
porting Blizzard to the Wisconsin COW (Cluster Of Workstations).

This work is part of the Wisconsin Wind Tunnel project, co-led by
Mark Hill, James Larus, and David Wood.

                         Date:   Friday, September 23, 1994

                         Time:   4 p.m.

                         Place:  Wean Hall 5409
 				CMU

Refreshments served at 3:45

The speaker will be here all day Friday.  Please contact 
Barbara Sandling (sandling@cs) if you want to talk to him.
