<0.11.10.94.09.16.27.rebec+@GNOME.CS.CMU.EDU (Rebecca Clark).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Who:      Robert Cavalier (CMU Ethics Center)
Topic:    Redesigning the Classroom: Teaching and Technology
          in Higher Education
Dates:    11-Oct-94
Time:     4:30 - 5:30 PM
Place:    Porter Hall 225B
Host:     Dana Scott (SCS, x8-3881 or Rebecca Clark x8-6737).
PostedBy: rebec+ on 11-Oct-94 at 09:16 from GNOME.CS.CMU.EDU (Rebecca Clark)
Abstract: 


SPECIAL MULTIMEDIA SEMINAR
 Date: Tuesday, October 11th
 Time: 4:30 - 5:30 pm
 Place: Porter Hall 225B
 Host: Dana Scott (SCS, x8-3881 or Rebecca Clark x8-6737).

 SPEAKER:  Robert Cavalier (CMU Ethics Center)
 TOPIC: Redesigning the Classroom: Teaching and Technology
 	in Higher Education

 ABSTRACT: Not since the introduction of chalkboards in the 1800s has
 the classroom been so challenged in regard to its basic design and
 pedagogical setting.  Neither overhead transparencies nor TV monitors
 provide the kind of dynamic, interactive capabilities seen on today's
 high resolution monitors.  Indeed, it is precisely the evolutionary
 symbiosis of powerful computers and good software that today provides
 the first real challenge to the traditional classroom setting.  The
 presentation will discuss all aspects of educational computing as it
is currently evolving: its history and context, issues of
instructional design and evaluation, technical support and
administrative advocacy, and the "computational turn" that is
affecting every academic discipline.  Concrete examples from Dr.
Cavalier's classes at Carnegie Mellon will conclude the presentation.
These examples include the use of interactive multimedia, a hypertext
syllabus to display and disseminate classroom materials, a
class-specific electronic bulletin board, and the potential
utilization of "Tele-profs" via network-based video mail.

SPEAKER PROFILE: Robert Cavalier received his BA from New York
University and a Ph.D. in Philosophy from Duquesne University.  He has
taught philosophy at a number of colleges and universities and has
co-authored CAI programs for logic.  In 1987 he joined the staff at
Carnegie Mellon's Center for Design of Educational Computing (CDEC),
where he became Executive Director in 1991.  While at CDEC, he was
also co-principal in the 1989 EDUCOM award winner for Best Humanities
Software ("A Right to Die? The Case of Dax Cowart").  Dr. Cavalier is
currently affiliated with CMU's Center for the Advancement of Applied
Ethics.  He is also a member of Carnegie Mellon's Philosophy
Department where he teaches courses in Ethics.  His coursework forms
an R & D vehicle that is used to explore many aspects of educational
computing.

------- End of Forwarded Message

