<0.28.11.94.13.10.16.mp3r+@J.GP.CS.CMU.EDU (Margaret Profeta).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    POP TALK
Dates:    2-Dec-94
Time:     3:00 PM - 4:30 PM
PostedBy: mp3r+ on 28-Nov-94 at 13:10 from J.GP.CS.CMU.EDU (Margaret Profeta)
Abstract: 
                                POP SEMINAR

                       THE TOPOLOGY OF SET CONSENSUS

                              Maurice Herlihy

                             Brown University

                         Friday, December 2, 1994

                    WeH 8220      3:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.
     Modern shared-memory multiprocessors are inherently asynchronous:
     processes can be halted or delayed without warning by interrupts,
     pre-emption,  or  cache  misses.    In  such  environments, it is
     desirable to design protocols that  are  wait-free:  any  process
     that continues to run will complete its work in a fixed number of
     steps, regardless of delays or failures by other processes.

     In the past  few  years,  considerable  progress  has  been  made
     understanding   wait-free   protocols   for   systems   in  which
     asynchronous processes communicate by reading and writing  shared
     variables.    Nevertheless, relatively little is known about such
     protocols in systems in which processes communicate with  certain
     more powerful synchronization primitives such as test-and-set, or
     fetch-and-add.  This question has some practical interest,  since
     many  modern  multiprocessor architectures provide these kinds of
     built-in primitives.

     Some recent partial progress on this question is reviewed.    Set
     consensus,  a  simple  generalization of the well-known consensus
     problem  is  considered.    Any  synchronization  problem  has  a
     characteristic  geometric structure, called a simplicial complex,
     whose topological properties determine  the  circumstances  under
     which  it  has  a  wait-free protocol.  It is first shown that no
     synchronization primitive can  implement  set  consensus  if  the
     primitive's  associated  complex  lacks ``holes'' of sufficiently
     small dimension.  Then it is shown that  any  protocol  employing
     set  consensus  as  a  primitive  has itself no ``holes'' below a
     certain dimension, partially characterizing the problems  it  can
     solve.  Some suggestive connections between consensus numbers and
     homology closes this discussion.

      Note: Joint work with Sergio Rajsbaum, MIT.

     If you would like to talk with Professor Herlihy, please  contact
     Marge at 85025 or mp3r@cs for available times.
