<0.05.12.91.12.29.42.lydia+@PROOF.ERGO.CS.CMU.EDU (Lydia Defilippo).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Who:      Gerard Allwein
Topic:    Kripke Models for Linear Logic
Dates:    13-Dec-91
Time:     3:00 PM
Place:    817 Cathedral of Learning
PostedBy: lydia+ on 05-Dec-91 at 12:29 from PROOF.ERGO.CS.CMU.EDU (Lydia Defilippo)
Abstract: 


			UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH COLLOQUIUM

 Date:    Friday, December 13
 Time:    3:00 pm
 Place:   817 Cathedral of Learning
 Speaker: Gerard Allwein
 Topic:   Kripke Models for Linear Logic

I will present a Kripke model for Girard's Linear Logic (without
exponentials) in a conservative fashion where the logical functors
beyond the basic lattice operations may be added one by one without
recourse to such things as negation.  You can either have some logical
functors or not as you choose.  Commutativity and associativity are
isolated in such a way that the base Kripke model is a model for
non-commutative, non-associative Linear Logic. The logic is also
extended with a coImplication operator (see Curry [1963], subtraction)
which is residuated with Linear Logic's cotensor product. And we can
add contraction to get nondistributive Relevance Logic. The model
rests heavily on Urquhart's representation of non-distributive
lattices and also on Dunn's Gaggle Theory. The valuations on the
Kripke model are three valued: true, false, and indifferent. The
lattice representation theorem of Urquhart has the nice feature of
yielding Priestley's representation theorem for distributive lattices
if the original lattice happens to be distributive. Hence the
representation is consistent with Stone's representation of
distributive and Boolean lattices and the semantics is consistent with
Halmos' representation of modal algebras and the Routley-Meyer
semantics for Relevance Logic. Linear logic has recently been
implicated in the logical analysis of Petri Nets and there is research
on-going into applying it for the theory of programming languages and
communication architectures. Incidently, Linear Logic with
exponentials has been shown to be undecidable by John Mitchell, Andre
Scedrov, et. al., however without the exponentials it is decidable.
